README.md, before:

<p align="center">
<img src="homebridge-ui/public/ambilight-tv.jpg" width="300">
</p>

# Homebridge Philips Ambilight TV

A Homebridge plugin to control Philips Android TVs with Ambilight as HomeKit Television accessories.

## Features

- Power ON/OFF with Wake-on-LAN support
- Input source selection (HDMI, TV tuner, apps)
- Volume control and mute
- Remote control (D-Pad, Back, Menu, Play/Pause, etc.)
- **Ambilight color control** with brightness and color picker
- Multi-TV support
- Custom UI for easy setup and configuration

### Ambilight Control

The Ambilight appears as a color lightbulb in HomeKit with:

- **On/Off toggle** - Turn Ambilight on or off
- **Brightness slider** - Control light intensity (0-100%)
- **Color wheel** - Pick any color using the HSB color picker

When you select a color in HomeKit, the TV switches to "Follow Color" mode with your chosen color. The plugin also syncs the current color state from the TV back to HomeKit.

## Requirements

- Philips Android TV with JointSpace API v6 (2016+ models)
- TV and Homebridge on the same network
- Node.js 20.18.0 or later

## Installation

### Via Homebridge UI (Recommended)

1. Open the Homebridge UI
2. Go to the Plugins tab
3. Search for "homebridge-philips-ambilight-tv"
4. Click Install

### Via Command Line

```bash
npm install -g homebridge-philips-ambilight-tv
```

## Setup

### Using the Custom UI (Recommended)

1. Open the Homebridge UI and go to the plugin settings
2. Click "Discover TVs" to find your TV on the network
3. Select your TV and follow the pairing wizard
4. Enter the PIN displayed on your TV screen
5. Customize sources and save

### Manual Configuration

Add the following to your `config.json`:

```json
{
  "platforms": [
    {
      "platform": "PhilipsAmbilightTV",
      "devices": [
        {
          "name": "Living Room TV",
          "ip": "192.168.1.10",
          "mac": "AA:BB:CC:DD:EE:FF",
          "username": "your_device_id",
          "password": "your_auth_key"
        }
      ]
    }
  ]
}
```

### Configuration Options

| Key | Description | Required |
| --- | --- | --- |
| `platform` | Must be `PhilipsAmbilightTV` | Yes |
| `devices` | Array of TV configurations | Yes |
| `devices[].name` | Display name for the TV | Yes |
| `devices[].ip` | IP address of your TV | Yes |
| `devices[].mac` | MAC address (for Wake-on-LAN) | Yes |
| `devices[].username` | Device ID from pairing | Yes |
| `devices[].password` | Auth key from pairing | Yes |
| `devices[].sources` | Custom source configuration | No |

### Getting Credentials

The `username` and `password` are obtained during the pairing process:

1. Use the plugin's custom UI to pair (recommended)
2. Or use the TV's built-in pairing API:
   - Send a pairing request to `https://<TV_IP>:1926/6/pair/request`
   - Complete the pairing with the PIN shown on TV
   - The response contains your credentials

## Editing Sources

The plugin supports customizing which sources appear in HomeKit:

1. Go to the plugin settings in Homebridge UI
2. Click "Edit Sources" on your configured TV
3. Drag and drop to reorder sources
4. Toggle visibility for each source
5. Click "Done" to save

Note: HomeKit limits input sources to 45 total.

## Troubleshooting

### TV not discovered

- Ensure the TV is powered on (not in standby)
- Check that TV and Homebridge are on the same network/VLAN
- Try entering the IP address manually

### Pairing fails

- Make sure no other device is pairing simultaneously
- Try restarting the TV
- Check the TV's network settings

### TV not responding

- Verify the TV's IP hasn't changed (consider a static IP)
- Check if Wake-on-LAN is enabled in TV settings
- Ensure the TV's API is accessible (port 1926)

### "Write handler didn't respond at all" warnings

If you see these warnings in the Homebridge logs, make sure you are running v1.0.4 or later. Earlier versions used a 15-second API timeout that exceeded Homebridge's handler deadline, causing the plugin to slow down the entire instance when the TV was unreachable.

### Debug logging

Run Homebridge with the `-D` flag to enable debug mode. The plugin will log every API request with method, endpoint, result, and duration:

```
[Living Room TV] API GET /powerstate
[Living Room TV] API GET /powerstate → OK (150ms)
[Living Room TV] API GET /ambilight/currentconfiguration
[Living Room TV] API GET /ambilight/currentconfiguration → OK (120ms)
```

This is useful for diagnosing TV API connectivity issues.

### Input sources not updating in Home app

This is a known tvOS 18 bug. The plugin includes a workaround that may require removing and re-adding the TV in the Home app.

## Development

```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/mickael/homebridge-philips-ambilight-tv.git

# Install dependencies
npm install

# Build
npm run build

# Run with test config
npm start

# Test TV endpoints
npm run test:tv
```

## License

MIT

## Credits

- [Homebridge](https://homebridge.io/)
- Philips JointSpace API documentation

Commit message:

feat: long-poll support, state sensors, dynamic app discovery, and input source fixes
- Add NotifyChangeClient for near-instant state detection via TV's
  /notifychange endpoint, with automatic fallback to interval polling
- Add StateSensorService with optional MotionSensor services for power,
  ambilight, and mute states (for HomeKit automations)
- Dynamic app discovery finds all installed TV apps (up to 30 inputs),
  replacing the previous hard-coded app list
- Apply visibility, order, and custom names from Homebridge UI sources config
- Encode DisplayOrder as TLV8 for proper input ordering in HomeKit
- Fix "Not Responding" by always publishing fresh external accessories
  (matching Apple TV Enhanced pattern)
- Fix generic "Input Source #" names by using setCharacteristic() pattern
- Initialize Active, ActiveIdentifier, CurrentMediaState before handlers
- Quiet polling: only log POST requests and actual state changes
- Remove test credentials from git tracking, add config.sample.json
- Bump version to 1.1.0

README.md, after:

<p align="center">
<img src="homebridge-ui/public/ambilight-tv.jpg" width="300">
</p>

# Homebridge Philips Ambilight TV

A Homebridge plugin to control Philips Android TVs with Ambilight as HomeKit Television accessories.

## Features

- Power ON/OFF with Wake-on-LAN support
- Input source selection (HDMI, TV tuner, apps)
- **Dynamic app discovery** — automatically finds all installed apps on the TV
- Volume control and mute
- Remote control (D-Pad, Back, Menu, Play/Pause, etc.)
- **Ambilight color control** with brightness and color picker
- **Long-poll state detection** — near-instant updates when TV state changes, with interval polling fallback
- **State sensors** — optional MotionSensor services for power, ambilight, and mute (for HomeKit automations)
- Multi-TV support
- Custom UI for easy setup and configuration

### Ambilight Control

The Ambilight appears as a color lightbulb in HomeKit with:

- **On/Off toggle** - Turn Ambilight on or off
- **Brightness slider** - Control light intensity (0-100%)
- **Color wheel** - Pick any color using the HSB color picker

When you select a color in HomeKit, the TV switches to "Follow Color" mode with your chosen color. The plugin also syncs the current color state from the TV back to HomeKit.

### State Sensors

You can enable optional MotionSensor services that expose TV state for HomeKit automations:

```json
{
  "stateSensors": ["power", "ambilight", "mute"]
}
```

Each sensor appears as a MotionSensor — "motion detected" means the state is active (TV on, ambilight on, or muted). This allows creating automations like "When TV turns on, turn on the lights".

## Requirements

- Philips Android TV with JointSpace API v6 (2016+ models)
- TV and Homebridge on the same network
- Node.js 20.18.0 or later

## Installation

### Via Homebridge UI (Recommended)

1. Open the Homebridge UI
2. Go to the Plugins tab
3. Search for "homebridge-philips-ambilight-tv"
4. Click Install

### Via Command Line

```bash
npm install -g homebridge-philips-ambilight-tv
```

## Setup

### Using the Custom UI (Recommended)

1. Open the Homebridge UI and go to the plugin settings
2. Click "Discover TVs" to find your TV on the network
3. Select your TV and follow the pairing wizard
4. Enter the PIN displayed on your TV screen
5. Customize sources and save

### Manual Configuration

Add the following to your `config.json`:

```json
{
  "platforms": [
    {
      "platform": "PhilipsAmbilightTV",
      "devices": [
        {
          "name": "Living Room TV",
          "ip": "192.168.1.10",
          "mac": "AA:BB:CC:DD:EE:FF",
          "username": "your_device_id",
          "password": "your_auth_key"
        }
      ]
    }
  ]
}
```

### Configuration Options

| Key | Description | Required |
| --- | --- | --- |
| `platform` | Must be `PhilipsAmbilightTV` | Yes |
| `devices` | Array of TV configurations | Yes |
| `devices[].name` | Display name for the TV | Yes |
| `devices[].ip` | IP address of your TV | Yes |
| `devices[].mac` | MAC address (for Wake-on-LAN) | Yes |
| `devices[].username` | Device ID from pairing | Yes |
| `devices[].password` | Auth key from pairing | Yes |
| `devices[].sources` | Custom source configuration | No |
| `devices[].stateSensors` | Array of state sensors: `"power"`, `"ambilight"`, `"mute"` | No |
| `devices[].pollingInterval` | Polling interval in ms (1000-60000, default: 10000) | No |

### Getting Credentials

The `username` and `password` are obtained during the pairing process:

1. Use the plugin's custom UI to pair (recommended)
2. Or use the TV's built-in pairing API:
   - Send a pairing request to `https://<TV_IP>:1926/6/pair/request`
   - Complete the pairing with the PIN shown on TV
   - The response contains your credentials

## Editing Sources

The plugin supports customizing which sources appear in HomeKit:

1. Go to the plugin settings in Homebridge UI
2. Click "Edit Sources" on your configured TV
3. Drag and drop to reorder sources
4. Toggle visibility for each source
5. Click "Done" to save

The plugin supports up to 30 input sources (5 static + 25 apps).

## Troubleshooting

### TV not discovered

- Ensure the TV is powered on (not in standby)
- Check that TV and Homebridge are on the same network/VLAN
- Try entering the IP address manually

### Pairing fails

- Make sure no other device is pairing simultaneously
- Try restarting the TV
- Check the TV's network settings

### TV not responding

- Verify the TV's IP hasn't changed (consider a static IP)
- Check if Wake-on-LAN is enabled in TV settings
- Ensure the TV's API is accessible (port 1926)

### "Write handler didn't respond at all" warnings

If you see these warnings in the Homebridge logs, make sure you are running v1.0.4 or later. Earlier versions used a 15-second API timeout that exceeded Homebridge's handler deadline, causing the plugin to slow down the entire instance when the TV was unreachable.

### Debug logging

Run Homebridge with the `-D` flag to enable debug mode. The plugin logs state changes as they happen:

```
[Living Room TV] Power: On
[Living Room TV] Volume: 17
[Living Room TV] Ambilight: FOLLOW_VIDEO (STANDARD)
[Living Room TV] Active app: com.netflix.ninja
```

POST requests (user actions) are always logged. GET polling is silent unless a state change is detected.

### Input sources not updating in Home app

This is a known tvOS 18 bug. The plugin includes a workaround that may require removing and re-adding the TV in the Home app.

## Development

```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/mp-consulting/homebridge-philips-ambilight-tv.git

# Install dependencies
npm install

# Build
npm run build

# Run with test config
npm start

# Test TV endpoints
npm run test:tv
```

## License

MIT

## Credits

- [Homebridge](https://homebridge.io/)
- Philips JointSpace API documentation
